Mid-size passenger jets, such as the Airbus 350-1000, have a narrower body. Although they can still carry over 350 passengers, these planes can’t match the 600-passenger capacity of a Boeing 747 in a single class configuration.
 The Airbus A380 further dwarfs that number with its 853-passenger capacity in a single class configuration. But the Boeing 737 recently expanded its range by 900 nautical miles to reach 3,000 for transcontinental flights.


light passenger jets

In the light passenger jet range, the seating for passengers is typically 60 to 100. The Embraer 175 can travel 1,800 miles at a cruising speed of 545 miles per hour.
 The smaller size of light passenger jets makes them the ideal choice for economy airlines.
 The seating is evenly divided into two sections on each side of a center aisle. Larger jets have three sections and two aisles.


passenger turboprops

Turboprop engines are more fuel-efficient than jet engines, however. Since fuel is one of the greatest expenses for an airliner, this makes them a better investment.
 A passenger turboprop can also operate and take off from shorter runways.
 This opens up the doors to flying a greater variety of short flights to meet the market demands. The larger prop planes, such as the Bombardier Q400, can carry up to 80 passengers.


cargo airplanes

Cargo planes have a larger scope than any of the other types because they are a conversion of the subtypes. As stated, the Boeing 747 can be converted into a cargo plane if desired.
 But Boeing also manufacturers jets specifically for cargo, such as the Boeing Dreamlifter.
 The Dreamlifter hauls up to 65,000 cubic feet of cargo. This is only defeated by the 78,000 cubic feet of the Airbus Beluga XL.



PRIVATE JETS

VLJ	

Very light jets are primarily for short trips to regional destinations. They typically offer seating for up to eight passengers.
 The advantage of these jets is that you can hire a single pilot to fly them instead of an entire flight crew.
 Some models also boast of low operating costs that are on par with turboprop planes. They are the ideal solution for reaching more remote destinations that airlines avoid.


light buiseness jets

Some light business jets are capable of transcontinental flights of 2,400 nautical miles or more. The definition of a light business jet is that the maximum takeoff weight is 20,000 lbs.
 compared to just half that for very light jets.
 And most light business jets can still maintain an average cruising speed of about 500 mph. This makes them on par with the larger commercial jets but ideal for private trips.
	

mid-size buiseness jets

While the typical VLJ and light jet carry a maximum of six passengers, a mid-size business jet offers comfortable seating for up to 10 passengers. You will find that the luxuries and amenities grow with each class.
 While they all hover around 500 miles per hour at cruising speed and offer the ability to land on smaller runways, a mid-size jet has larger parties in mind for longer transcontinental trips.


heavy buiseness jets

These jets are often converted from larger commercial airline jets into luxury liners. The advantage of a heavy business jet is the ability to conduct full-scale meetings and conferences.
 They accommodate anywhere from 10 to 18 passengers and are able to fly at high altitudes above the weather for maximum comfort and reliability.
 They also have single flight ranges that exceed 6,000 miles over a span of six to eight hours.